


FFLOW(1)              ForUtil Fortran Tools              FFLOW(1)


NAME
       fflow - generate a flowgraph for fortran files.

SYNOPSIS
       fflow  [-cefhinpqtuv]  -Eext  -Idir -ddepth -llevel -ofile
       -sname -xname [files]


DESCRIPTION
       fflow Generates a (partial) flowgraph of a  collection  of
       fortran  files.   When  fed  with  a couple of directories
       and/or files, fflow creates  a  flowgraph  indicating  the
       flow  in  your program. The output is written on stdout by
       default but can be written to file.  fflow is very usefull
       for  large  programs  where you only want to see the flow-
       graph of a certain part of a program.


OPTIONS
       -c     Using this option instructs  fflow  to  generate  a
              complete  flowgraph for each subroutine or function
              it encounters. By default, fflow will  place  a  ==
              Line  XX  ==  in  the output for each subroutine or
              function for which it has already generated a flow-
              graph.  Beware  though  that  using this option can
              significantly increase the size of the output  file
              and  that  it  can take a little longer to generate
              all flowgraphs.


       -e     Using this option will cause fflow to  not  include
              functions  without  calls  in  the output. Helps to
              decrease the size of the output file.


       -f     Include the full path of files in the  output.  The
              default  is  to  print  the  name of the file only.
              Using this option increases the memory  fflow  uses
              to  store  its  data,  so it might be unwise to use
              this option on msdos systems with their 640kb  mem-
              ory limit.


       -h, --help
              gives  a  short description of every option you can
              use.


       -i     Using this option causes fflow to not print unknown
              function  calls  in the output. Usefull if you only
              want to have a flowgraph of  a  part  of  a  source
              tree.





Linux                      August 1996                          1





FFLOW(1)              ForUtil Fortran Tools              FFLOW(1)


       -n, -n-
              Using  this  option  will  cause fflow to tell what
              subroutines are never invoked. If you only want  to
              check your files for this and do not want to gener-
              ate a flowgraph, use -n-


       -p     Starts the flowgraph  at  the  PROGRAM  definition.
              When used with -u , fflow generates a flowgraph for
              PROGRAM only.

              Note: if you use the -u option, fflow will generate
              a  flowgraph  for  the  first  PROGRAM statement it
              encounters.


       -q     Be really quiet (usefull if called from a  script).
              Only error messages will be shown.


       -t     Use tabs instead of | as level indicator.


       -u     Do  not  print unused functions in the output file.
              Using this option will cause  fflow  to  not  print
              functions and/or routines which are not referenced.
              Use the -n or -n- option if you only want to  print
              unused subroutines.


       -v     Be  verbose.  Using this option shows a lot of use-
              full information about the files being scanned.


       --version
              Show the version number of fflow


       -Eext  Extensions fflow must use to determine which  files
              it  has  to  scan. Up to eight -E are allowed.  The
              default extension is .f


       -Idir  Using this option tells fflow which directories  it
              has  to  search for f77 files. Only the contents of
              that  directory  are  scanned.  Subdirectories  are
              ignored.  Up to 64 -I are allowed.


       -ddepth
              Sets  the  maximum  recursion  depth  to depth. The
              default value is 64. This recursion  depth  is  the
              maximum depth of function calls, and is mainly used
              as a test for detecting recursion. If fflow manages



Linux                      August 1996                          2





FFLOW(1)              ForUtil Fortran Tools              FFLOW(1)


              to  get  to  the default value, this probably indi-
              cates  that  somewhere  in  your  program  infinite
              recursion  might  occur.  If fflow aborts saying it
              has reached the maximum recursion depth,  it  means
              that  this  number  has  been hit. If you are abso-
              lutely sure that recursion does not appear in  your
              program,  you can increase this number to the maxi-
              mum value of an unsigned integer on your system.

              The default value of 64 should be  enough  for  any
              program.


       -llevel
              Using  this  option  will cause fflow to generate a
              flowgraph which is only  level  levels  deep.  This
              option can be very usefull to get a general idea on
              the flow in a very large program. It also will help
              reduce the size of the generated flowgraph.


       -ofile file  to write flowgraph to. The default is stdout.


       -sname This option causes fflow to start the  output  file
              with the named function.  When used with -u , fflow
              generates a flowgraph for this function only.


       -xname Tells fflow to exclude the named file when scanning
              the files found with the -I -E options. Up to 64 -x
              options can be given.


EXAMPLES
       fflow -p -u fortran-files generates a flowgraph  for  your
       program only.

       fflow  -sname  -u  fortran-files generates a flowgraph for
       [name] only.

       fflow -Idir1 -Idir2 -E.f -E.f,v generates a flowgraph from
       files  ending in .f and .f,v from the directories dir1 and
       dir2.


DIAGNOSTICS
       The following warning messages can occur:

       WARNING: no program entry point found in file <file>
              a call statement was encountered before  a  PROGRAM
              statement  was  found.   fflow will use the name of
              the file where this warning  occurs  as  a  program
              name and continue.



Linux                      August 1996                          3





FFLOW(1)              ForUtil Fortran Tools              FFLOW(1)


       Write failed
              This  error can occur when fflow is writing a flow-
              graph to file and a write error occurs.   The  most
              likely  reasons  for  this  error to occur are disk
              full or no space left on device

              The flowgraph generated by fflow can be very  huge.
              We have seen a complete flowgraph of a single func-
              tion which was in excess of 50MB, so it's  easy  to
              fill  up  your  disk. When you encounter such large
              flowgraphs, you  might  want  to  use  the  -llevel
              option in order to generate a useable flowgraph.


DISTRIBUTION POLICY
       All  utilities  in  this  fortran  utility  suite are dis-
       tributed under the GNU Public License.


COMPATIBILITY
       fflow has run under HP-UX 9 and 10, SGI IRIX  5.2  &  5.3,
       DEC  OSF1,  SunOs  4.1 and 4.3, Cray Unicos, IBM AIX 3.2 &
       4.1, Linux and MSDOS 6.2.  fflow also runs in  a  dos  box
       under  Windows 3.1, 3.11 and Win95. An MS-Windows version,
       Winfflow, is also available.


SHORTCOMINGS
       The output of fflow contains a flowgraph for each  subrou-
       tine  or  function found in the input files. When you give
       fflow the -c option, it can take a long time to write  the
       flowgraph  to  file  if  you  have  fed it a collection of
       source files with a huge number  of  calls.  This  can  be
       annoying especially when running fflow on MSDOS.

       Currently,  fflow only looks at CALL, so although FUNCTION
       is found, these do not show up in the flowgraph.


BUGS
       The MS-DOS versions of  these  tools  can  cause  problems
       under  MS-DOS  if you feed them with a large collection of
       files, few files with a lot of calls or a  combination  of
       both. This is totally due to the 640kb memory limit MS-DOS
       has.

       If you think you have found a bug, you can send  email  to
       the  author, describing what the bug is, how you generated
       it and if you can reproduce it. Also specify the  platform
       where this bug occured.


AUTHOR
       Koen D'Hondt



Linux                      August 1996                          4





FFLOW(1)              ForUtil Fortran Tools              FFLOW(1)


       ripley@xs4all.nl
       (C)Copyright 1995-1996 by Ripley Software Development


SEE ALSO
       ftags(1),   ffscan(1),   scan_commons(1),   get_common(1),
       list_commons(1)


















































Linux                      August 1996                          5


