


FFSCAN(1)             ForUtil Fortran Tools             FFSCAN(1)


NAME
       ffscan - checks argument count for fortran f77 files

SYNOPSIS
       ffscan [-fhnqv] -Eext -Idir -ofile -xname [files]


DESCRIPTION
       ffscan  scans a collection of fortran files and checks the
       argument counts of every call made against its definition.
       When a mismatch occurs, ffscan will tell you in which file
       this particular call is made, and it will also  tell  what
       the  correct  number of arguments should be, together with
       the name of the file where the subroutine in question  can
       be  found.   ffscan  does  not do any type checking on the
       arguments, it simply counts them.

OPTIONS
       -f     Include the full path of files in the  output.  The
              default  is  to  print  the  name of the file only.
              Using this option increases the memory ffscan  uses
              to  store  its  data,  so it might be unwise to use
              this option on msdos systems with their 640kb  mem-
              ory limit.


       -h, --help
              print a short help describing the options.


       -n, -n-
              Using  this  option  will cause ffscan to tell what
              subroutines are never invoked.


       -q     be really quiet (usefull if called from a  script).
              Only  error  messages and the final results will be
              shown.


       -v     Be verbose. Adding more -v to the command line will
              increase the output ffscan will generate.

              Using  -v  will  show  some statistics of the files
              being scanned such as the number of subroutines and
              functions defined in a file and the number of calls
              made.  If you use the -ofile option, these  statis-
              tics will also be placed in file

              Using -vv will, in addition to the output mentioned
              above, cause ffscan to report all  settings  it  is
              using to determine what files it has to scan.

              When  you  use -vvv ffscan will tell you what it is



Linux                      August 1996                          1





FFSCAN(1)             ForUtil Fortran Tools             FFSCAN(1)


              scanning from your files, this in addition  to  the
              output mentioned above.  For each subroutine, func-
              tion or call it encounters, ffscan  will  tell  you
              what  the name of that routine is and the arguments
              detected. It will also tell you how many  arguments
              there  are.  A  number  called  brace count is also
              shown. This number should  always  be  zero.  Using
              this  option  can generate a considerable amount of
              output, so you might wish to pipe it to a file.

              At the end of a run ffscan will also give  a  count
              for  the  total number of subroutines and functions
              found.


       --version
              Show the version number of ffscan


       -Eext  Extensions ffscan must use to determine which files
              it  has  to  scan. Up to eight -E are allowed.  The
              default extension is .f


       -Idir  Using this option tells ffscan which directories it
              has  to  search for f77 files. Only the contents of
              that  directory  are  scanned.  Subdirectories  are
              ignored.  Up to 64 -I are allowed.


       -ofile file in which to store the results of the scan. The
              default is stdout.


       -xname Tells ffscan to exclude the named file  when  scan-
              ning the files found with the -I -E options.  Up to
              64 -x are allowed.


DIAGNOSTICS
       The following warning messages can occur:

       WARNING: unbalanced right brace

       WARNING: unbalanced left brace
              When one of these warnings occur, you have a  brace
              to  many or a missing brace in the argument list of
              a subroutine or function definition or in the argu-
              ment list of a call.

       WARNING: more than 19 contination lines
              ffscan has detected more than 19 successive contin-
              uation lines in a argument declaration.




Linux                      August 1996                          2





FFSCAN(1)             ForUtil Fortran Tools             FFSCAN(1)


       WARNING: no program entry point found
              a call statement was encountered before  a  PROGRAM
              statement  was  found.  ffscan will use the name of
              the file where this warning  occurs  as  a  program
              name and continue.

       ffscan  will always tell you in which file and around what
       line these warnings occur.


DISTRIBUTION POLICY
       All utilities in  this  fortran  utility  suite  are  dis-
       tributed under the GNU Public License.


COMPATIBILITY
       ffscan  has  run under HP-UX 9 and 10, SGI IRIX 5.2 & 5.3,
       DEC OSF1, SunOs 4.1 and 4.3, Cray Unicos, IBM  AIX  3.2  &
       4.1,  Linux  and MSDOS 6.2.  ffscan also runs in a dos box
       under Windows 3.1, 3.11 and Win95.


SHORTCOMINGS
       Currently, ffscan only looks at CALL, so although FUNCTION
       is found, these are not checked.


BUGS
       The  MS-DOS  versions  of  these  tools can cause problems
       under MS-DOS if you feed them with a large  collection  of
       files,  few  files with a lot of calls or a combination of
       both. This is totally due to the 640kb memory limit MS-DOS
       has.

       If  you  think you have found a bug, you can send email to
       the author, describing what the bug is, how you  generated
       it  and if you can reproduce it. Also specify the platform
       where this bug occured.


AUTHOR
       Koen D'Hondt
       ripley@xs4all.nl
       (C)Copyright 1995-1996 by Ripley Software Development


SEE ALSO
       fflow(1),   ftags(1),   scan_commons(1),    get_common(1),
       list_commons(1)








Linux                      August 1996                          3


